LOCAL COVERAGE DETERMINATION (LCD)
Continuous Glucose Monitors (CGM) and Related Supplies
LCD ID: L33822
Revision: 2.0
Effective Date: July 1, 2025
Contractor: National Part B MAC, Jurisdiction M
Status: Active

1. COVERAGE INDICATIONS

A continuous glucose monitor (CGM) and related supplies are covered as
durable medical equipment when all of the following criteria are met and
documented in the beneficiary's medical record:

  1.1 The beneficiary has a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus supported by one
      of the ICD-10-CM codes listed in Section 5.

  1.2 The beneficiary is 18 years of age or older on the date of service.

  1.3 The beneficiary is being treated with insulin, either by multiple
      daily injections (three or more injections per day) or by continuous
      subcutaneous insulin infusion pump.

  1.4 The beneficiary performs, or has a caregiver who performs, a minimum
      of 4 fingerstick blood glucose tests per day and the frequency is
      documented in the treating practitioner's records.

  1.5 The beneficiary had an in-person visit with the treating practitioner
      within the 6 months prior to the date of the written order to evaluate
      diabetes control and to determine that a CGM is medically necessary.

  1.6 The beneficiary or the beneficiary's caregiver has been trained on the
      use of the device, including sensor insertion, calibration, and
      interpretation of alerts, and the training is attested to by the
      supplier.

  1.7 The medical record documents failure of prior therapy, meaning the
      beneficiary did not achieve adequate glycemic control on a regimen
      guided by self-monitored fingerstick testing during a trial period of
      at least 3 months.

2. LIMITATIONS

  2.1 A CGM is not covered for a beneficiary whose diabetes is managed by
      diet, exercise, or oral agents alone with no insulin therapy.

  2.2 A CGM is not covered for gestational diabetes or for prediabetes.

  2.3 More than one CGM receiver per beneficiary per five years is not
      covered absent documentation of loss or irreparable damage.

  2.4 Supplies billed in excess of a one month supply per month are denied
      as not reasonable and necessary.

  2.5 Claims that do not meet the criteria in Section 1 will be denied as
      not reasonable and necessary.

3. DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS

  3.1 A standard written order signed and dated by the treating practitioner
      must be on file prior to claim submission.

  3.2 Progress notes from the in-person visit described in 1.5, including
      the fingerstick testing frequency described in 1.4.

  3.3 The insulin regimen, including type and number of daily injections or
      pump settings.

  3.4 A supplier attestation of beneficiary or caregiver training.

  3.5 Records of the prior therapy trial described in 1.7, including the
      glycemic results that establish inadequate control.

  3.6 Documentation must be made available to the contractor upon request
      and must be retained for seven years.

4. APPLICABLE HCPCS CODES

  K0554  Receiver, dedicated, for use with therapeutic CGM system
  K0553  Supply allowance for therapeutic CGM system, one month supply
  A4239  Supply allowance for non-adjunctive, non-implanted CGM, one month
  E2103  Non-adjunctive, non-implanted continuous glucose monitor or receiver

5. APPLICABLE ICD-10-CM CODES

  E10.9   Type 1 diabetes mellitus without complications
  E11.9   Type 2 diabetes mellitus without complications
  E11.65  Type 2 diabetes mellitus with hyperglycemia
  E13.9   Other specified diabetes mellitus without complications

6. CODING GUIDANCE

  6.1 The ICD-10-CM code reported on the claim must be one of the codes in
      Section 5 and must be supported by the medical record.

  6.2 Claims for HCPCS codes not listed in Section 4 are outside the scope
      of this policy and will be denied as not covered.

  6.3 The KX modifier may be appended only when all criteria in Section 1
      are met and the supporting documentation is on file.
